all right
hello jason lumpkin how you doing
i am great nick thank thank you so much
for having me join you it's great to be
here awesome so for those of you who
don't know nick mata ceo of gainsight
and i'm here with my long time friend
jason lemkin who needs no introduction
if you're in sas i don't think you could
possibly not know jase lumpkin but in
the for the one person that doesn't
jason is a one of one of the original
sas entrepreneurs became an investor
started saster and really has helped
built this amazing sas community which
is going to culminate in a conference
coming up very shortly called daniel
which i'm very excited about
so it's awesome to have you here jason
thanks so much
yeah thanks thanks and thanks nick for
being a very original part of the sas
granule here at the at the very first
one which we literally i just saw on my
facebook
you know i really only use facebook for
the memories now um but it was seven
years ago today we launched the first
astra annual and you were you were kind
enough to come and be
and be a host um and it was funny you
did a panel
um you did it with three entrepreneurs
on that were at a million in arr and all
four of you are unicorns and decacorns
wow so it's interesting it was you
thiago from talk desk nicholas from
algolia and daniel from greenhouse and
all were growing well right but none of
them were past more than a couple
million in revenue
but it's interesting going to our talk
to the predictability of recurring
revenue isn't it because all four of you
including including our moderator nick
in 2015 all became unicorns sort of
there's not a lot of luck in that
there's a lot of hard work but four out
of four is not luck is it that is insane
well that's a great stat yeah it's funny
when you look at all the speakers in
general from saster in the early days
it's amazing where they've all gone so
let's let's uh let's start there i got
icebreaker question because first of all
give everyone the dates the logistics
for sas daniel when what are the dates
yeah it's it's september 27th through
29th
we are um completely outdoors for the
seventh annual we're at the san mateo
family county fairgrounds where you guys
did a pulse which was
a lot of work to do outdoors but the
good news is we all know how to do this
so we're on 50 acres
we'll have 5 000 people everyone has to
be vaccinated and tested yeah everything
is outdoors um so
it's tough to do much more than 50 acres
so
it'll be fun it'll it'll be we'll learn
right i mean you know doing this
festival style instead of in uh in a
building will be different with tents uh
you know we're building seven hundred
thousand dollars worth of tents and um
there'll be weather but it should be fun
it should there should be probably more
mentorship and more hanging out
um and less sitting in windowless
conference rooms
but uh but it will be interesting it
might make for a better conference
potentially huh that's interesting
yeah well you know i mean here's the
thing like
the feedback loop since march of 2020 um
i don't know i mean we know what's
happened in sas right which is 95 of sas
companies benefited like either a little
bit or a lot right a handful haven't
but the irl world i mean we haven't
gotten back right so we don't know and
not only we can talk about events which
which matters for marketing and all this
but
even we all became distributed companies
which take a pause for a minute that's
crazy yeah it's crazy it's crazy i
remember sitting even our little team
sitting with emilia who runs most of
sastra now i kept before in 2020 i kept
saying how could we be distributed this
is so lame that we drop we can only hire
sf people and we we drive to san
francisco every day no one lives in san
francisco
how how could we fix this and i remember
talking with wade from zapier he's like
you gotta lock the doors he's like you
gotta lock the doors for two weeks not
forever
but for two weeks and not let anyone in
not let the ceo enter and then if you
lock the door for two weeks you'll learn
we lock we all lock the doors for 20
months yeah right not literally but
close right
that is such an interesting analogy
that's interesting because you i
actually went to my first uh post or not
post code because we're so uncovered but
uh in coving first conference a lot this
earlier this week it was a smaller event
but um it is you know if you do it right
which you guys are definitely doing it
feels great so i think folks that are
watching definitely go to sas draniel
it's going to be awesome i'm going to be
there really excited what are you most
looking forward to at the event what's
what are you excited about personally
i just want to learn
what the new world will look like i want
to learn what
getting together means for five you know
it would be ten thousand if the
international wasn't blocked that's
interesting but
what will what will
events mean what will gatherings mean
when
we're all distributed and intuitively it
should be more important right
and our limited hints i think that we've
seen
recently suggest that right but we don't
know it's so new that the get-togethers
were doing the lunches sales off just
had 500 people at their all hands
meeting all tested lots of folks are
kind of doing these smaller things
intuitively it seems if we're all
distributed
we're all we're all going to get
together every quarter somewhere and
it's going to be more impactful right
but i don't know but what i do know is
that things like events which which
you and i have spent a lot of time on
they do need to be completely rebooted
for a distributed world like completely
rebooted completely and i and i'll be
honest with you i do not have any of the
answers but we get
this is the only b2b event with 5 000
plus people happening this year and
certainly in the bay area yes
forget maybe vegas and miami but in the
bear so we can use this as an experiment
and we can all learn from it
what will the world look like because i
the only thing i don't think we're going
to do
because it's been so long is all go back
into these windowless rooms in moscone
jammed in in the dark i don't think
we're going back to the dark right i'm
not saying we're not going inside but
that paradigm is in the past i think
we're not going back to the dark that
sounds like a song waiting to be written
i like this something
there's something but i think it's all
gonna change it's all gonna change and
i'm excited what bringing people
together can mean right when you were at
the first session in 2015 it wasn't
meant to be an event it was a community
gathering we said hey let's get a
thousand people like the knicks and the
layla's integra let's just get together
for a whole a whole day that was a whole
it was jaw-dropping for an entire day
right
so long ago so now it's time to hit the
reboot button
and maybe see what do 10 000 founders
and executives mean and and we'll learn
we'll learn september 27 29th and then
we'll redo it next summer
yeah and we'll learn but i i know it
won't be the same and i just i'm not
smart enough to know for sure but we'll
we'll learn well kudos to you for being
the brave uh first first pioneer we're
gonna all learn together from you thank
you
and you know
one thing we'll definitely be talking
about there because i'll be there is
customer success i can't not talk about
it jason very kind enough to give me a
session and actually he inspired the
title of the session which is going to
be about what's changing in customer
it is success right you think back to
like 2013 2014 2015 and you know what
customer success was then and what we
think about it now so i'd love to hear a
little bit maybe just give people some
of the history you are not this isn't
your first rodeo in terms of thinking
about customer success you've been
writing about it and churn and all that
from the beginning so like why did it
matter to you early on incest or why
were you thinking about then and then
maybe how is it changing over time
i mean if you want to go you know we've
been doing i've been writing sas content
for nine years it's crazy right since
2012. and you're right of some of the
stuff and we did a lot with gain side
maybe 30 of the original content which
now is table stakes but second order
revenue and champion change people would
read this and their jobs would drop
you're like wow you're right like
this does the second order reference
really does happen and champions go to
other companies and and how things scale
and how nrr works but there wasn't
enough we we knew these but we there
wasn't enough time to see it in practice
right because it takes years to see the
impact of ndr nr churned and see it
takes years right um but my personal
passion was
you know very specific to me which is
after selling what's now adobe sign echo
sign to adobe
some things went well after the
exhibition but some things did not go
well it was a big company in a small
acquisition and what i saw quickly and
it was sad in a way but like certain
things couldn't be killed you could not
kill reasonably happy large customers
okay the free edition was ripped out
terrible decision other pro features
were ripped out the day i left but the
big ones that the ones that were 150 250
even a couple approaching a million acv
that were reasonably happy not only did
they renew which we used to worry about
but they would grow somehow you would
think hey there can't be another seat
left
at some big insurer or cable company and
yet next year somehow there's 20 more
seats 20 more seats and i didn't get it
until i had the price and then i
realized my god like
you could get to from 10 to 100 million
in revenue now this is something obvious
i realized when i had presence of mine
you get to 10 to 100 with almost no
sales team not quickly no not quickly
if you have big customers and and it's
sticky totally and high nrr and higher
so i just started writing that because
no one got it no one actually even
understood the power of recurring
revenue i don't think till 2017. no
right
and um you know
2015 aaron levy came one week after the
ipo box which was very early in this
week
i was there totally i remember there and
i asked aaron of of the folks on wall
street how many that you pitch
understood recurring revenue is like a
few
a few right and now every prospectus
that you read today you know the
headline metric is enter our ndr right
right there every single company it's
their it's their headline metric right
yeah it's so interesting because i think
one recurring revenue is like a lot of
things in life where i don't think
people get it until they experience it
like you talked about the second order
revenue and all that it's like when you
experience your business like slow down
because turns a headwind or speed up
because of nrr when you experience your
renewal base being bigger than your new
business all the things that you've seen
over and over that's when you feel it
right i think i feel like there's a lot
of ceos who have felt it now firsthand
not just read about it you know yeah let
me give you a crazy statistic go if you
want to go back in time a little bit so
we sold an echo sign adobe sign to adobe
in 2011
2011 it was 10 million at the time we
signed the deal it was 12 million are
when it closed yeah
um and we had 28 market share okay today
i'm guessing it's less than half that 13
but
okay so that's a lot that's a lot of
that's a tough drop but it's 250 million
of ar so think what
nine years does or 10 years does so even
if you lost mark you don't even have to
gain market share if you have 120
percent nrr that 120 percent are carried
a 10 million business to 250 million
even with market share loss right this
means you could like build
and you know that would be at least a 10
or billion dollar company today on its
own right and that's with a market share
loss but with high nr right with high nr
um
and so it's so it's beyond powerful and
it's
it's why we you know i continue with the
startups i work at now i you know i
continue the the best advice is invest
more and post sales not even we can talk
about customer success but really i
think the next frontier is post sales
customer marketing customer success
account management it doesn't matter
we're all under investing after the deal
closes right
well let's talk about how you measure
that the advice you give people so one
of the questions is always okay do i
focus on churn and the kind of leaky
bucket the lost side of it or net
retention overall which i get expansion
but sometimes net retention can hide a
little bit of a turn issue how do you
talk about that at the board level
well i mean i could ask you the same
question but i will tell you the more
tactical thing i've learned about this
okay so your question is where should
you focus on nrr or churn or ceo like
this this trade-off i tell you what i've
learned and it's true and it's also true
in sales between data because they're
related you got the generals you got
okay and i would say in cs there's
roughly two types of folks there's the
cs professionals with they have a little
bit of the salesman person in them or a
little bit of the fail till and they
love to hunt and they love to schmooze
at the customer event
and and fly the customers on the
helicopters and get the upsell and they
love being part of the sales team but
not having to do sales right they love
and enter our number you say to them
listen linda bob nick your job is to go
from 110 to 120 nr okay that's your job
this year when you hit that you're going
to get a 50k bonus or you're going to
get five percent of the upside
that works okay
there's another persona where they they
just they
they all they like to do is worry about
the customer and make them happy they
hate sales they think sales is yucky
they don't like these numbers and if you
give them an nr number they'll do it but
they'll melt yes they'll melt right it
doesn't work and it doesn't work as a
kpi and it doesn't work for a variable
comp either it just doesn't work they
don't internalize it
and they feel uncomfortable that's not
why they're not in sales that's why
they're imposed sales so
we could talk about the pros and cons
but it's your it's your general right
and the same thing in sales like should
sales should sales own customer success
i'm against that should sales own this
or that but your general like some sales
folks just want to close some want to
get more into a life cycle the customer
because they see the upsell but you
can't change a general too much right
they already learned their playbook in
the last war
i love that that's such a good good
leadership lesson in general and i'll
kind of tie it to what i think about
this turn versus not retention which is
i think what ends up happening in a
company's history is there's different
periods where there's more to be gained
on focusing on reducing loss versus
increasing gain and other times where
it's more about it it's about growth
right and so it depends on where you are
so for example you're a sas company
you're 20 million of ar you're selling
to enterprise and your retention is 78
gross
work on your retention right like yeah
right but if you're a sas company and
you're selling to smb and your retention
is gross retention is 90 92
work on expansion right like you you
can't get that much better so where are
you in that efficient frontier right
yeah and
i would say you work on gross churn for
a while and at some point then you've
got good at that now you get the general
who can do the expansion i agree with
you by the way often it's a different
person sometimes the person can change
but for the most part it might be a
different person they take you into that
growth phase um
the worst thing you can do though is
have the wrong playbook for where where
you're at for example you have a 77
gross retention and you're signed to big
companies and you're focused on you have
a the sales oriented general trying to
expand some of those customers but
missing that like most of your customers
just bleeding out right that's bad right
and the same way
you've got this super sticky business
and you can't really increase retention
anymore you got to expand but you've got
this protector type person who doesn't
want to talk about sales at all
meanwhile r d is shipping new modules
and wondering why is nobody buying them
right so you really need the right like
you said the right general for the right
battle i think the one thing and i'll
give you one comment just to add on to
you but let me add the one thing we've
learned the last couple years on this
this this turn for center the one thing
i would add is
now that there's so many public sas
companies you know 130 however you
define it you got to be top quartile
yeah what i mean is we can go there's
blog posts or on sas or every now figure
out what your comp is are you like
squarespace are you like datadog are you
like whoever it doesn't matter
if your churn and all that is in the
zone of theirs focus on nrr right
if your churn is below the comps and
sometimes for it's okay because you have
time some of these companies did not
have the wonderful churn they had before
the s1 right uh you know the hub spots
even the hub slots from the shopify took
a while to get to 100 right but if
you're not there
get there because it's the number one
thing you can do focus engineering and
time
and what i've learned is when you do
that what happens is and i'll give you
engineering gets involved yes okay so
the question is does engineering get
involved and when you say guys look
our comp is zendesk zendesk has hit 120
nr now let's slice it for the smbs it's
105. okay
how are we going to get to 105. and i
and instead of it being uh something
that support does or you layer on top of
gainsight it's like now i get i get
three of my best engineers totally
that's when magic happens but you have
to have these comps to align the company
and then all of a sudden you you do that
right you figure it out with best of
breed engineering um
and so figure out if you're in the top
quartile and take action um
and then related to that i think what we
didn't intuitively know
until there's more so these companies
went public and we could see what
happened from 100 million to 1 billion
are is it's key for the vast majority of
not all but the vast majority of sas
companies is you need a second product
to drive up nr okay box is one of the
actually old old box is one of the most
dramatic examples their nrr varies from
90 to 130 depending on how many modules
and products you use that's a big
variance at box we see it with datadog
we see it all across the board and
this is kind of the next frontier
especially with smbs when you talk about
smbs what i've seen both public but also
private is the way you get above 100 nr
with smbs is multiple products look at
build.com look at folks like that right
and that's the key and so we got to
think about this thoughtfully but
earlier than than we used to is
that's the way we drive it all up right
it's not all it's not all zooms and and
and steak dinners it's multiple products
adding exponentially more value for the
customer right yeah that's so right and
it's interesting because that's when
people talk about who owns nr you know
sure the customer success team is part
of it for sure but the product team and
building new products is a bit like you
said a big part of it and then sales
people sell those products and i think
that a lot of companies get stuck where
they are a one-trick pony and you know
that gets you so far maybe gets you to
20 or 50 or 100 million of ar but you've
got to find a way to have a portfolio i
also find i know you've seen jason that
it also helps your gross retention
because you got multiple products in
there you're just more sticky you know
you're just like you're unless the
customer is less likely to abandon you
all together you know
yeah i mean it's it is for for i think
for at least for ceos
you gotta you gotta monitor your gross
retention carefully right um and it's
interesting i i did um
you know i i caught up you know one of
my early investments was sales loft too
right i mean pre-revenue and when they
crossed 100 million kyle you might have
heard the same thing the number one
thing kyle was getting from wall street
is what's your grr your nr is great we
get it but we don't care right because
you're in the zone right you have enough
bigger customers what's your grr what
what
what how well are you keeping these
gross customers and how are you bringing
in new customers yeah absolutely you're
not masking you're not masking
a try to growth right with higher nrr
right
um and that is just i don't know i don't
know how many kpis a startup can handle
i think if you get if you make everyone
responsible for for gross retention and
net retention they're going to bang
their heads on the table you got to pick
a ceo like what's more important and
it's got to be net retention right you
have to pick it has to be right yeah and
i also think that there's something of
like what's the long-term metric and
then you can still have for this year
we're going to focus on x but what
long-term thing we're focused on what
one related point on that is you talked
about um obviously part of net retention
and gross retention is you know customer
experience customer success part of it's
how many products you have and if you're
cross-selling them another part though
is the pricing model right and so you
know some pricing models are usage based
pricing and they sort of naturally have
this organic growth because your
customers use more twilio being the
ultimate example that and some of them
are like you sell everything up front a
whole bunch of licenses and maybe
there's a little bit of growth so how do
you think about pricing models fitting
into net retention and what's changing
about pricing models
i think um
the first where i saw this in practical
give you a case study so that first
panel you were on in 2015 was with
algolia uh search as a service api
developer focused right but developer
focused with multiple stakeholders with
marketers and other people buying and
they just crossed a hundred million
accelerating okay and about 60 growth
and um
they bernadette came in as the new ceo
and they did an incredible job before
but she she had a fresh sheet she had a
fresh perspective
and learned a couple things from her one
one tactical and one strategic on this
right first she went
um and talked to wall street you know
years after my ipo but to get ready at
100 plus and said what do you think how
much of our revenue needs to be
subscription
versus per
per usage you know what they said all we
care is that your nrr's north of 130
yeah that's interesting we don't care
where it comes from this is the change
from it's not just twilio it's fintech
it's everything yeah
arr doesn't air for better words for old
timers like us there's no r in the
middle of ar anymore annual revenue the
r is fake right and that still drives us
nuts right but it's true because we're
all look at bill.com the majority of
bill.com's
revenue is no longer from software same
with shopify majority of these companies
are fintech software hybrids
and but what's key is that the blended
revenue you know build.com has gone from
110 to almost 130 since ipo that's
pretty fast right by having multiple
products but it's but it's less of its
software um
so that was a learning and then what
bernadette did at algolia which was
interesting they had spent years
debating as a developer focused company
whether to go all in on usage based
right and they'd done the opposite we
were a bit old school they had it was
usage based but then you'd hit these
tiers and and you'd have to come in and
see us and sales would have to come in
and kind of upsell you to the tiers and
what they saw in the data was um
even though the overall nr was good the
churn was very high at these tiers very
high it was a natural point where not
only did the pricing go up but it
created friction right yes so the
customer would say they wouldn't just do
something different then yeah that's
interesting and nick saw it for years
and they debated it internally but the
data also said to be risky to change yes
right and so bernie it's just
interesting because they're both great
bernadette came in and said look i'm i'm
new here i'll take the i'll take the
arrow in the back we are abandoning
these random tiers we're going to go
more developer centric and they're
basically gone and there was no downside
no downside right so i think we're all
moving to pricing that is more
customer-centric right every customer we
have buys over 100 sas apps they've
demoed over a thousand sas apps and the
person you know
maybe this isn't the question you're
asking but you have to give the pricing
model the customer wants but just make
sure it's easy and that you have that
top quartile nrr right even if it's not
really
recurring
there's no recurring in that so yeah i
like it i mean that occurs as a corpus
right but it doesn't the contract
doesn't always occur right
recurring is really a state of mind it's
not it's
it's a it's okay so you also get to meet
lots of like little new baby companies
you know like the it's like algolia and
gainsight were back in 2015. what do you
see what's different about the way they
talk about cs and stuff like that
when they're starting then way back when
we were little companies what's what's
different about early stage you know
it's a good question i was thinking
about i i would ask you i
the main thing i don't
i don't i think only two things have
really changed i can think about i'm
sure there's more than one thing first
of all is hyper awareness early on
of how critical cs is right i hired cs
very early but i back in the day i
wasn't really sure what it did other
than make my big customers happy right
cs my view of cs or in the early days
when you got started gainslight is it
was an evolution of you got to make your
big accounts happy we've always had
account managers right and now they need
tools and now we understand there's nr
that was the difference so we have
account managers we have nrr now we have
cs which needs tools and systems but
everyone gets that and everyone
the instrumentation that i see early
stage is shocking the data the metrics
their insight their their their cohort i
still don't even know how to do a code
analysis myself their ability to do that
in year one to segment churn by category
right they get it um and
um that's the biggest benefit um the the
the the other challenges i just think um
is
you know recruiting is tough and
everything right so the biggest downside
i see versus the old days is folks stick
with two junior a team for too long yes
totally you talk about this all the time
your team for too long and
so it's so true i see it all the time
you know i know i'm up on time i'll i'll
do a close-out word association just to
get you out on time and everyone
watching it well i would like to do
these so first thing that comes to your
mind uh
rewards churn
um
fix it
fixable fixable
very small you've seen people fix it
yeah and we are net dollar retention
magic
magic yeah it is like magic one works
i'm throwing in a new one here by the
way just listening to us talk product
led growth we didn't talk about a lot
but obviously it's a hot award what
comes to mind when you hear product line
growth
um
is it real
is it real interesting because it is a
little bit of pixie dust right now we'll
get to learn more about that at saster
annual customer success
um
not enough
not enough people aren't doing enough
and not investing enough in post sales i
heard that saster annual last one what's
the what's the thing we should think
about with sas daniel have fun you
deserve it
yeah what a great way to close out have
fun you deserve it by the way jason i
hope you get to have fun there you
deserve it too and i mean that everyone
in the sas community thanks so much for
everything you do man love seeing you as
always and i will see you in two weeks
all right man thanks for all the time
i'll talk to you soon so much bye
you